In the last lecture, we added some basic set up to ensure that once we click post here, we have to enter
valid data.
Now here it doesn't work yet because what I have to do of course is save,
go back to the service worker,
bump up the static version here so that the new feed.js file also gets used or just clear
the storage here and reload,
that of course is always the option, let
me get rid of this question mark at the end of the URL
and now we should see that if I click post here, I get an alert that I need to enter valid data, as soon as I do enter
valid data though, it slides down.
Now of course we don't do anything with that data,
that's the goal of this lecture.
Now I want to register this sync task and for that, I will first of all check if we do have access
to service workers in a given browser because otherwise there is no use in doing that because
we can't use background synchronization anyways because we can't use servers workers.
Now however, we also have to check if this sync manager is available in window. Now
sync manager is basically the API through which we use the background synchronization features and it's important
to understand how browsers support looks like for that feature.
For that, we can inspect the sync manager API document here on MDN, link of course can be found in the
last lecture of this module
and there you find how to use it,
not that difficult as you can see, only get two methods and you see the browser compatibility.
Now as you can see, it's pretty scarce right now,
Chrome supports it and Edge and on mobile, also Chrome for Android supports it and Edge.
So basically, most browsers don't support it yet, though Chrome for mobile already is a big thing,
I always will say that, that reaches a big audience already
and of course chances are very high that other browser vendors will soon support this too,
it is in development for these browsers.
So with that, we know what the browser support looks like but that also makes clear why we need to check
for sync manager, even if a browser support service workers,
it might not support sync manager.
Therefore with these checks here in place, now I can safely we use background sync inside of that if
statement.
First of all, I will reach out to my service worker and there I can call the ready property to make sure
that it has been configured, that it is installed and activated, that it is ready to take some input. Ready
returns a promise and therefore I can chain
then at the end. So this simply will be executed, the function in here will be executed and give me access
to the service worker
once it verified that the service worker is ready, that's an asynchronous task hence then. Now inside
then, I now can interact with the service worker and that's important.
Keep in mind I'm still working in the feed.js
file,
I'm not writing this code inside the service worker
which is why I need to get access to it like so. Now
the reason I'm doing it like this is because the event which triggers the background synchronization
set up happens in the feed.js file.
I can't listen to that event in the service worker because I can't listen to the form submission
there,
that is why I have to do it in feed.js
and that is why I reach out to the service worker like that.
Now however we can work with the service worker and I want to register my sync event with it.
We do this by using the service worker and calling sync,
this gives us access to
the sync manager now from the service workers point of view and there we can call the register method.
The register method just as you would assume allows us to register a synchronization task with the service
worker.
It takes only one input and that is an ID, a tag
we can add or we can use to clearly identify a given synchronization task.
So here, I'll give it the name of sync new post,
you can choose any string you want
here, we'll later use that in the service worker to react to re-established connectivity and check which
outstanding tasks we have
and then we can use the tag to find out what we need to do with the task.
So for now, we only register the tag.
Of course we don't have all the information we need yet though, we also need to find out what we should
we do, what should we send,
what's the data we want to send with that request.
That's something I'll add in the next lecture when we configure this synchronization and make sure we also store
the data we want to send in indexedDB.